{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}{\f1 Courier New;}}
\fs24
\b TEST PLAN\b0\par
\par
\b Table of Contents\b0\par
1. Introduction\par
1.1 Objectives\par
1.2 Team Members\par
2. Scope\par
3. Assumptions / Risks\par
3.1 Assumptions\par
3.2 Risks\par
4. Test Approach\par
4.1 Test Automation\par
5. Test Environment\par
6. Milestones / Deliverables\par
6.1 Test Schedule\par
6.2 Deliverables\par
\par
\b 1. Introduction\b0\par
This Test Plan communicates the testing approach for the SupportAI project. It defines the objectives, scope, risks, schedule, test environment, automation strategy, and deliverables for validating the system.\par
\par
\b 1.1 Objectives\b0\par
SupportAI is a web-based support ticketing and routing system with a React frontend and a FastAPI backend backed by SQLite. The objective of testing is to verify that users can log in by role, create and track tickets, allow support agents to resolve assigned tickets, and allow administrators to review tickets and agents. Unit and integration testing are included to validate both isolated logic and end-to-end workflow behavior.\par
\par
Phase 1 focuses on the following must-have outcomes:\par
1. Customer can create a ticket.\par
2. Customer can view created and resolved tickets.\par
3. Support agent can view assigned tickets.\par
4. Support agent can resolve tickets with notes.\par
5. Admin can review all tickets and agent information.\par
\par
\b 1.2 Team Members\b0\par
Resource Name\tab Role\par
Project Team\tab Development and Testing\par
QA / Tester\tab Test design, execution, and reporting\par
\par
\b 2. Scope\b0\par
In scope:\par
1. Authentication by role: customer, support, admin.\par
2. Ticket creation and retrieval.\par
3. Ticket status tracking and resolution.\par
4. Queue classification, tagging, and assignment logic covered by Jest tests.\par
5. Unit and integration testing of the provided JavaScript test modules.\par
\par
Out of scope:\par
1. Load and stress testing.\par
2. Production deployment validation.\par
3. Migration of legacy documents into the application.\par
\par
\b 3. Assumptions / Risks\b0\par
\b 3.1 Assumptions\b0\par
1. Jest and required dependencies are installed in the frontend workspace.\par
2. The test environment is available locally.\par
3. The provided test data is sufficient for unit and integration coverage.\par
\par
\b 3.2 Risks\b0\par
1. Scope creep may add features not covered by the current test suite.\par
Mitigation: update test cases with each iteration.\par
2. Inline self-contained tests may diverge from the live application code if the product changes.\par
Mitigation: keep the suite synchronized with implementation changes.\par
3. Environment differences may affect repeatability of test execution.\par
Mitigation: standardize Node, Jest, and project dependency versions.\par
\par
\b 4. Test Approach\b0\par
The project follows an iterative approach. Testing will include:\par
1. Unit testing of database helpers, classifiers, tagging, ranking, and assignment logic.\par
2. Integration testing of login, ticket pipeline, assignment behavior, status transitions, and routing consistency.\par
3. Exploratory testing for user-facing workflows where needed.\par
\par
\b 4.1 Test Automation\b0\par
Automated tests are implemented using Jest. The current automated suite includes:\par
1. Unit tests: authentication, transformer engine, priority classifier, queue classifier, type classifier, tag extractor, assignment engine.\par
2. Integration tests: login and session handling, ticket creation pipeline, assignment under load, ticket status transitions, classifier consistency, repeated-problem routing.\par
\par
\b 5. Test Environment\b0\par
Frontend: React with Vite\par
Backend: FastAPI\par
Database: SQLite\par
Automation Tool: Jest\par
Execution Command: {\f1 npm test}\f0\par
\par
\b 6. Milestones / Deliverables\b0\par
\b 6.1 Test Schedule\b0\par
Task Name\tab Effort\par
Test planning\tab 1 day\par
Create initial Jest suite\tab 1 day\par
Execute unit tests\tab 1 day\par
Execute integration tests\tab 1 day\par
Review failures and stabilize\tab 1 day\par
Final reporting\tab 1 day\par
\par
\b 6.2 Deliverables\b0\par
1. Test Plan Word-compatible document.\par
2. Jest unit and integration test suite.\par
3. Test execution results.\par
4. Test status summary.\par
\par
\b 7. Test Execution Results\b0\par
Execution Date: 2026-05-10\par
Execution Command: {\f1 npm test}\f0\par
Environment: Local frontend workspace using Jest\par
\par
\b Result Summary\b0\par
Test Suites: 1 passed, 1 total\par
Tests: 27 passed, 27 total\par
Snapshots: 0 total\par
Overall Status: PASS\par
Execution Time: 0.9 seconds\par
\par
\b Executed Coverage Areas\b0\par
1. Unit testing of authentication and database helper logic.\par
2. Unit testing of TF-IDF transformer behavior.\par
3. Unit testing of priority classification.\par
4. Unit testing of queue classification.\par
5. Unit testing of ticket type classification.\par
6. Unit testing of tag extraction.\par
7. Unit testing of assignment engine behavior.\par
8. Integration testing of login and session handling.\par
9. Integration testing of full ticket creation pipeline.\par
10. Integration testing of assignment behavior under agent load.\par
11. Integration testing of ticket status transitions.\par
12. Integration testing of classifier consistency.\par
13. Integration testing of same-problem routing behavior.\par
\par
\b Detailed Outcome\b0\par
All implemented Jest test cases completed successfully with no failures. The provided self-contained SupportIQ test suite executed as expected in the frontend test environment.\par
\par
\b Current Test Files\b0\par
1. frontend\tests\supportiq.test.cjs\par
2. frontend\jest.config.cjs\par
\par
}
